Let's hop into HTTP/2 push.
I have the hardest time saying the words
HTTP/2 out loud, the syllables
there just don't mesh in my mouth, so
I'm gonna mess it up a bunch of times.
I might just call it H2 because I
hear a bunch of people call it that,
I won't cuz I'll forget but
I would like to.
Okay.
So let's talk about HTTP/2 push.
So let's think of a normal,
TCP IP HTTP requests, right?
I make a request to example.com,
I send a bunch of headers,
they sent a bunch of stuff back.
And it just goes back and
forth like it's that kind of
normal exchange of information.
I write a single request and
to that request, I get a single response,
it's a one-to-one relationship that I
requested something and I got it back.
What if we could make an HTTP request
instead of getting just one request back,
we could get, or sorry, one response back,
we can get many responses back?
And that's what we're actually gonna do
with this thing called HTTP/2 push, right?
We're just gonna open a connection but
after we're done getting information for
the first chunk of data
that we're gonna get,
we're just not gonna close the connection,
right?
We're just gonna leave that
connection open and just say, cool,
if you got more stuff, send it my way.
That's what HTTP/2 push is.
So the first thing I was describing to
you, which is one request, one response,
that is the old spec, which has
been around since like 96, or 97.
And that's HTTP/1.1,
it's been around forever,
it still serves us well.
I was actually just going
through some websites,
a bunch of websites still actually do
100% of all their requests over 1.1,
and that is actually mostly totally fine.
HTTP 2 came out in 2015, and ever since
then we've been kind of adapting to that.
It started out as a library
from Google called SPDY,
S-P-D-Y, I don't know what this stands for
or if it stands for anything.
But basically after
a couple years of pushing,
I remember them pushing it at
conferences in 2011, 2012.
Firefox adopted it, Safari adopted it.
Eventually people are like,
okay, this thing makes sense and
they just kind of modified and
they built on top of HTTP/1.1.
And made it a little bit better and
added some better features to it.
Just some highlights of
things that they added,
you can now multiplex requests
which that was extremely helpful.
So let's say I'm
connecting to netflix.com,
rather than connect to netflix.com,
read the HTML,
figure out that I need this CSS file and
this image file and this JavaScript file.
And opening new requests to the server and
having individual handshakes and
headers and stuff like that.
You can actually just open one big pipe
connection and it all goes over the same
connection so you don't have to
make multiple handshakes basically.
Huge performance win, really cool.
There's better compression strategies to
HTTP/2, it allows a lower level access
to the binary frames, which sounds smart
and I actually don't totally get it.
But suffice to say it allows finer grit
access to the underlying frames which
are actually sending the data back and
forth so they can compress them better.
And it also added request prioritization,
so you can say, hey,
this CSS file is a higher priority than
this image file, so you can actually send
them things in different orders and
that can be negotiated over the protocol.
There's other things, those are just
the things that stood out to me.
The thing that I actually wanna talk
about is long running requests,
which is a feature of HTTP/2.
So a long running request is
basically the idea that I'm going to
connect to the server and
it's not going to immediately
give me everything back, right?
So where this is actually super,
super useful, imagine that you're building
an index.html file and
the body takes a long time to render.
Maybe it's all of their user details and
you have to request from the database,
request that from the cache and
a bunch of stuff like that.
And it takes a while to call
that stuff to come back.
If you're doing 1.1, you have to wait for
all of that to be finished before
you can send them anything, right?
You can't just send them a piece or
a chunk of it,
you have to send them
the entire thing back.
The reason why this is a damn shame is
that there's CSS files that they need to
download, there's images
that they need to download.
There's fonts, there's scripts,
there's a bunch of stuff that the browser
could be working on but is not allowed
to because they don't know about it yet.
Now enter HTTP/2, what we can do is
we can say, my user connects and
then I immediately push to
them the entire head, right?
So they can see all the fonts, they can
see all the CSS, they could probably even
load a little loading script tag where
they could put up a nice loading module or
something like that.
But I can immediately flush
that information to them, and
then in the background run all that
other rendering that I have to do and
querying databases.
And then in a second chunk,
push them the rendered information and
then maybe in a third chunk,
you send them the footer, right?
But suffice to say that something
that had to come all at
once can now come in multiple pieces,
that is what we're about
to abuse is supposed to do.
What we're gonna do is we're
gonna make an API request and
then just not finish the request.
And then we're just gonna send multiple
things down on the same API request.
I don't think it was designed for that,
maybe it was and I just think I'm
more clever than I am, so, true,
I do think I'm more clever than I am.
But basically we're gonna take that
same strategy of being able to flush out
multiple pieces of an index.html and
we're gonna do that with API requests.
Cool, yeah suffice to say,
we're gonna open a connection and
then we're gonna send little
JSON chunks down to the client.
Man, I have chunks written
everywhere in my notes and
it's just a weird word to say out loud,
right?
I don't know, probably should
have chosen a different word.
Yeah, Mark.
>> Are there any advancements planned for
HTTP/3 that will improve upon HTTP/2 push?
>> Good question, the answer is no.
What's interesting about HTTP/1 versus 2
versus 3 is 1 to 2 changed
a lot of the interop and
the kind of the protocols and
the handshakes and all that kind of stuff.
The stuff that actually profoundly
affects you and me as web developers,
that was a big revolution for that.
HTTP/3, which is often called QUIC,
Q-U-I-C,
I think it's another Google project
if I'm not mistaken, actually
messes with the transport layer and
not necessarily with the protocol layer.
Which I know I'm just throwing
out weird words here, but
what it's actually doing is
it's actually messing with how
the individual packets are sliced up and
sent over.
HTTP/1.1 and
2 both use what's called TCP/IP,
which is probably a term that
you've heard before, right?
Whereas HTTP/3 uses something called UDP,
which if you've ever done any sort
of networking, should make total sense
to you, it makes a little sense to me.
The thing that HTTP/3 is going to
revolutionize us as web developers
is that it's way more
fault-tolerant than 2 and 1.1.
So the thing about TCP/IP is you get a,
I think it's called head-of-line blocking.
And the idea is basically, let's say
I'm sending 100 packets to you and
you drop the third packet, you have to
wait for that third packet to come.
It must come in the correct order and
so you have to wait until you have to
send back to the server, hey,
I missed the third packet and
then the server's like, okay,
here's the third packet again, right?
And then you can continue
loading all of your stuff,
that's TCP/IP and
that's just how it's designed.
UDP, which I forgot what it stands for,
but basically UDP says,
we're just gonna send you all the packets,
it doesn't matter what order they come in.
You can drop packets and you can probably
reconstruct stuff from other packets,
right, it's much more meant
to be fault-tolerant.
And so you lose this problem
with dropping packets.
That's the biggest change from 2 to
3 is this ability to be much more
fault-tolerant.
So if you're in rural Montana and
you're on a cell phone,
this is gonna be a revolution for
your speeds because you don't have
this head-of-line blocking problem for
you anymore, right?
If you're on gigabits, probably not gonna
make a terrible difference to you, but
for people that have harder
networking problems,
it's gonna make a big difference.
Yeah, question.
>> So this is based on an assumption that
I had, my assumption was TCP/IP was for
areas where accuracy is
more important over speed.
And UDP was used for
video chat applications, perhaps,
so how does that kind of fit with HTTP/3?
Is HTTP/3 meant for things like those?
>> So the question is, is HTTP/2,
or sorry, just TCP/IP in general,
has generally, the mantra of is
that you use that when accuracy,
everything has to be
constructed correctly.
Whereas UDP sacrifices some of that
accuracy for speed and fault tolerance.
You're basically scratching the end
of my knowledge of networking.
My understanding of QUIC
which is based upon UDP, so
it's on top of UDP,
is that they've accounted for
that because accuracy is still
just as important, right?
That whatever they built into 3 which
I'm not terribly familiar with,
QUIC is just now rolling out.
I don't think that every
browser supports it yet,
I think Chrome does support it today.
I know CloudFlare for example, one of
their things is they do support QUIC.
But they basically took
the best of both of them and
married them together to make
it fault-tolerant and accurate.
That's as good as you're gonna get
out of me because that's all I know.